reporting to the cloud. Hi everybody.
Okay, so this is the Board of Finance
special budget workshop, April 8th,
2026. Hopefully our last, but we'll see.
>> Um, I'm going to start it off with the
pledge of allegiance. Pledge of
Allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America and to the republic
for which it stands, one nation under
God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
>> All right. As I was mentioning, I don't
know if everybody heard because people
were still joining. Kim had emailed
saying she wasn't going to make it. Uh,
you know, hopefully it was going to be a
short meeting, didn't need her, etc. Um,
so as I was saying to Liz, I just
emailed her. I was looking at the last
draft of the presentation and I think
there's a discrepancy on two slides
relating to RAM.
>> We have slide four and slide 11.
>> And so what I'm going to do, I'm going
to share my screen. Did you want to go
through public speak first or
>> Oh, my bad. Hang on. I I I keep
forgetting to look at the agenda. I'm
just like, let's go. My apologies.
The only one I think we have uh we have
Ron and Lisa. So, we'll go. Ron, do you
have uh public speak?
>> Yeah, I'm just uh listening in, guys.
>> Appreciate it.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Uh hey, Lisa, thank you for making it.
>> You're welcome. I'm sorry. I'm finishing
my dinner.
>> Yeah. Ma mji eat. So anyway, we were
looking I was looking at the
presentation as I was saying. Um and I
do think the RAM numbers are a little
screwy on at least one of these slides.
So could very well be share my screen.
>> Hey, while you're doing that, can you
guys know like will they just lower our
levy or are we to get a check? Do you
guys know how that's to be handled yet?
>> All right. So I am super confused. Uh, I
I remember we talked about how there was
a meeting Monday night and I couldn't
make it and Liz couldn't make it either.
So, what I ended up doing, I was at the
town hall today paying my taxes and then
I popped it. I was talking to various
people and Roberta had it up and said,
"Here's the recording." And we kind of
went through the the beginning bit where
they were talking about the levy and and
the offset
>> and it just wasn't clear to me from that
recording unless I just missed it.
My specific question, and I've asked
this before, and I just I emailed Colin
again today asking it again. What number
will appear on the referendum?
Because the offset is that's fine. We
know we can plan for that. We know we
don't need to tax, you know, as much.
But I think personally that the the
their full cost, the full cost levy, the
the 4.2 2 million and change. That's
what should be on the ballot because
otherwise you're kind of hiding it. You
know, you're kind of masking it with
this. It would look like a reduction and
it's not,
>> right?
>> Um, so I asked that. I don't see a
response as yet. I mean, I didn't I
don't I don't think I got that email off
until 4 in the afternoon. So, you know,
I'm not going to be calling up about
that. But I just didn't get from that
meeting clarity.
>> I know what the number is. the numbers
clear.
>> Yeah, but I just wonder like
>> how are they going to handle it exactly
is still to me to my mind a little
fuzzy.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Uh okay folks, let's um let's go through
this thing.
This is this is just it, you know,
process slide. Same thing here.
Um
second Tuesday in May. We did we verify
that date?
>> Yeah,
>> I I did. Yeah, I called.
>> The second Tuesday is is the 12th, isn't
it?
>> You're right. You know what? I fixed it
on one. It's supposed to be the first.
>> So, it's the first. Yeah.
>> So, am I editing? Uh,
>> you edit yours. I have this up. I think
I pulled this up from the email. I saved
yours to my drive, but you edit
>> to first.
>> Thank you. Yep. First.
>> No problem. First. So now the first
thing that comes to mind is this. So
this number looks right to me.
>> I can't remember
if this I this might be right. I knew it
was about 3%. I thought it was a little
different than that, but bear with me.
This number I believe is the correct
number based on the levy chart. What I
said I emailed you that levy chart,
right?
>> Yep.
>> So that's the number from there.
>> Um you know what? I don't know if I
relooked at that partic this particular
slide. I looked at the other slide. So,
hold on.
>> It's 11 that I got a real issue with,
but this one I just want to make sure
it's right. I think that is the right
number. And I think we just want to have
that number firmly in our heads because
a what we just talked about.
>> Um,
>> what that number is the total
expenditures for RAM,
>> the total and over levy, which is two
components, right? You've got the you've
got the ops and then you got to add the
for a capital.
>> You got to add them together.
>> Oh, that might be where I went wrong.
>> I think this is the the number added
together. I remember it being 4.25
something.
>> So, I think that number is right.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that is correct. So, but if we go to
11 and I'll come back to the other
slides, but I just want to go straight
to the the issue that I saw this here.
>> That's not the right number, I don't
think. And that's why it's producing
this odd
>> change.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So, the proposed
>> also and this one too, this is off too.
This is 399 something and this should be
42 blah blah blah blah,
>> right? So it should be 42
>> 58 ahead
>> 4258178.
>> Yeah,
>> it should be 4258178
and 00. Is it 00 or we doing pennies or
no?
>> I believe it's 0.
>> 0. Yeah, we said no pennies.
>> Okay. And then
>> and and then you know this number here
is wrong too now because what you did I
think you subtracted the the offset from
the wrong number
>> 55 or 289 whatever it is.
>> Yeah. So if memory serves what these
numbers should end up as this should end
up as plus like 3% and this should end
up like minus 3%. Instead of plus 75 and
minus 5 and a half.
>> I think you're probably right. Um
>> cuz that's what we had and then I think
you went through it again and you got
mixed up a little bit. Yes, I did. I
went I went
Yeah. 39999302.
>> So, which which number? The
>> below it. Just
>> Yeah, the one taking away the 258. Yeah,
that should be
>> Yeah, these are both off and they're
throwing off the percentage.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you Can you say that number again?
399.
>> Sure. 3999302.
>> 3999302.
Okay. And then
>> so Rob, why don't you put that other
number above it? The right number.
>> I'm going to
>> Oh.
>> Um,
I just, you know, this isn't the this
isn't the real working draft since we're
having I was keeping I was having since
Liz had it, I was going to have her
>> keep, you know, keep ownership for now.
Uh, her edits are the going to be the
ones that matter.
>> So there's no math in the chart there.
>> There's no math in the chart. This is a
copy paste from a spreadsheet. You got
to fix it on the Excel and then paste it
back in.
>> I got you.
>> Okay. So then the increases would
>> math out.
>> These are these are just off. I mean
they're just
>> And then these will and then down here
these will probably recalculate as well.
>> Oh, so you're just going to put in the
the Excel sheet and then recopy that and
put it in here.
>> Yes. Oh, copy it back over. Yeah,
>> I got you. Yeah, because you I don't
think in PowerPoint you can make it do
Excel things.
>> I don't think you can do it. Yeah.
>> No.
>> So, what what are those numbers like
plus three and minus three?
>> Yeah, roughly. I had it earlier.
>> 2.97.
>> Yeah, this one's this one's like Yeah.
>> And then minus 3.29.
>> I know we went over and over and over
that. I can't believe that I got that
wrong.
>> You know, I did something like this
earlier, too. It's like when you have
multiple drafts, you know.
>> Yes, that's the problem. Okay, so 4,258
178 and then 3. Oh, I've got it right on
here. I think I just said I think I
copied the wrong one. So, the proposed
without offset turns out to be 2.26. Is
that right?
>> No, it shouldn't be. It should be 2.97.
Okay.
>> What is the What do you have for the
Ram levy number?
So
>> Oh, see I 4135
532 is what I have.
>> What?
>> 4135
532.
>> I think that's
>> that's really close. But
>> that's Yeah.
>> 4135
>> 532.
And if that's the case, then that's
going to recalculate. Damn it. Okay.
Yep.
>> So then this might recalculate. This
might recalculate all the formulas.
>> 4153 or 4135.
>> I have 4135532.
>> That's what's in the budget book.
>> Oh, there you go. Sorry.
>> So that makes it a 2.97%
correct
>> increase and then a negative 3.29.
>> That sounds right.
>> Okay, that's correct. And then total
increase So, and all the formulas should
hopefully once you put the right numbers
in, right, all the formulas are in there
in the Excel chart, right?
>> Yep.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay. So, does that do
anything down here, Liz?
>> Uh,
let me see.
Does it do anything?
>> Because we, if we change this, this, and
this, does it change these, and
therefore these?
>> You know what? When we I think when we
talked about it, we decided to not use
that second line, but I can put it in.
>> Yeah. I thought we decided Oops, sorry.
I thought we decided forget this. This
This here is is a nonsense line. Yes.
Because it's the offset. It's a oneshot
deal.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. So, the increase since 2021 equals
I'm sorry, negative 969
633.
equals. So let me just
>> Now when you say 21 and I said 21, what
I meant I think was 2020
>> to 2021. All right. I just wanted to
make sure because it it gets confusing.
>> So So it's D.
Let me just make sure I'm doing this.
>> Yeah, it's it's you know it's this
versus this.
>> I want to make sure. Y make sure
>> it's definitely a decrease. It's just a
question whether it's that. I think this
is right, but
>> D29 minus
total increase. So equals
equals D29
minus
Yeah, I think that's wrong.
Okay, so the difference from the current
proposed budget and the 2020 2021 number
>> is 969
633.
And that's 18.55%.
>> Okay. So, that's what it'll look like
once we've got this fixed. The only
other one that needs to be looked at,
Liz, is this here because we changed
this number. So, this number here should
recalculate.
>> Assuming, of course, I have the right
numbers in here. Remember, I went
through Hebrin's budgets and pulled
these. So, I hope they're I think
they're right, but I hope they're right.
Hold on. I wasn't looking at what you
were
>> Oh, okay. Sorry. The change percentage
year to year.
>> Can you just
I just want to copy and paste this over
right now. So that as we move on to the
next slide. So this is right. Okay. So
slide 11.
>> That 33 can't be right because the
number's going down.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
It's like it's like zero.
>> Yeah, it's essentially it's going to be
like a negative point. It's like I
thought it was this or something like
that.
>> I just did it quick and I got 0.0035.
>> So you call it zero.
>> Yeah.
>> So what what is 0.035?
>> That change
>> the year the year-over-year change
number, right?
>> From 2425 to 2526 here in this column.
You see what I'm highlighting?
It's not like truly zero, but it's
pretty close to
>> Yeah, it's so close to zero. It's a
rounding error. I mean, it's you get
200.
>> Oh, the 25 26.
>> It's like that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Let me see.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, actually,
mine comes out to
35%.
So Lisa, what number? Sorry, Lisa, what
number do you have for 2425 actual levy?
>> Um 2425. Hold on. 425
RAM. 4150106.
>> Yep, that's what we got.
>> Okay. And 4135532.
>> Let me double check here.
>> 413532.
basically an arrow.
>> Yeah.
>> Hilda in front of the zero.
>> Say like Yeah. Right. Like
>> Yeah.
>> Like that.
>> That's good.
>> I realized what the problem is. I don't
have um the uh calculation in there.
It's just it was just a hard number.
>> So that Oh, that it goes to still goes
to 0.35%.
Hm.
>> I have 0.0035.
>> Yeah, that would be right.
>> Yeah,
>> it might be off. There might be a
decimal place issue here.
>> I I think that tilda zero.
>> What was that?
>> Why do
>> Yeah, it seems like it's so small
though. I think like the tilda zero
works because if we put zero, people are
going to question why. But we're saying
with the tilda, it's like approximately
zero. That's how I
>> it is point Lisa's numbers right. So
there's a there's a formula error in
there Liz.
um
>> if it's producing
>> for the formula. Okay. So my formula is
>> 2025-26
>> minus
>> divided by this
>> divided divided by 24 and I get 0.35%.
>> Yeah. 0.35
>> percent
0.35% is the change percentage.
>> Oh. Oh, wait. Not okay.
>> Okay.
I think that's actually probably right.
>> Yeah,
>> that's it. That's it. That's it. That's
right.
>> That's the same as zero. Yes.
>> Fun with decimal places. Got it.
Percentage. Yes, that's right.
>> Okay.
>> Yep.
The other thing I did is I just stuck
dollar signs up here. I I don't know. It
just doesn't matter. But they weren't in
>> stuck dollar signs where
>> on in front of all these RAM levy
numbers just in the p the past numbers
they didn't have. So I just had them
that it doesn't
>> I don't know what the heck happened.
What I'm looking at has I don't know
what happened guys. I'm sorry.
>> It's okay. I
>> Hey, I I've definitely sent out things
where I thought I had fixed something
and then like you caught it and
>> yeah,
>> try, you know, just let's tighten it up.
It's fine. It's no big deal. Um, so I'm
going to Are we being good with this
slide for now? Like for you're going to
you're going to fix it
>> based on us.
>> Yep.
>> And then what I think we can do is if
you can fix it while we're talking and
email it around again, I'll pull up that
one
and then we can see it. Oh,
>> but I was going to go back while you're
doing that.
>> Um,
this the budget snapshot. I think this
is all correct.
>> Oh, that's the other issue. This thing
here.
So,
okay. Did you see the email I forwarded
you from Jodie about the the spreadsheet
error?
>> I did. And I went back and forth and
back and forth. Should we fix it? Should
we not fix it? Um,
you know, the difference makes
that's really up to you whether we
should actually fix them.
>> Based on I'd like to fix it since we're
fixing stuff and and get it right and
then we're all on the same page and then
we don't have I don't want to have an
argument over two grand or whatever it
was,
>> right?
>> Um,
>> what do we fix it to? Do we fix it what
their budget actually adds up to or what
has been reported? What was what was
actually passed by the town as their
budget?
>> Um,
>> what what is the issue? It didn't it
>> Oh, not sorry. Not this. It's not it's
not this number. This is the number
they're requesting. Sorry. Let me go to
>> Yeah, it goes to the previous year. Yes,
it's it's it's this one
that we're showing a slight difference
between this what the school had as
their number and what Liz had calculated
as their number based on a school
spreadsheet.
Um, but I know that I think the budget
number, the actual budget that was
passed is slightly different than that
number right there. And it's just it's
2,000 bucks. I think it's 4565
something or other instead of four 563.
>> And I just think like they're sorting
out where where they went wrong. But
>> yeah. Um so actually the 2024 2025 and
the 2025 2026
numbers
>> Mhm.
um don't add up correctly in the budget
that we received from them in the PDF
that they that we received from them.
>> Right?
>> So just for everybodyification, Liz took
that and put it took that PDF and dumped
it into an Excel chart and did the sum
formula
>> and they didn't didn't match the totals,
>> right?
>> Right. So, the difference, the dollar
difference,
um,
okay, so when you add up all the
columns, let me just say it this way.
When you add up, um, the 2025 2026
adopted budget, when you actually do the
math through an Excel spreadsheet, it
adds up to 4 million 563
659.60,
>> which is the number you have on this
slide.
>> Yep. But in the PDF bud in the PDF
budget that we received the bottom line
totaled in their total was4 million 565
and60. So it's a difference of $210.
>> Now the question I'm trying to remember
now is what did what did we have in the
budget document last year
>> that was actually passed
I looked at that. Uh, did I save it?
>> My figure is 4565532
and that's what's in QuickBooks.
That's all I'm telling you is that's
what was put in for a budget
integration.
>> 532 even.
>> That's all is 0. Yeah,
>> you should always go zero. Round it up
to this.
>> Yep.
>> Well, okay, whatever. So,
>> I'd be tempted to use that number.
Even though I I like you're not wrong
about the the addition, but um
>> No,
>> I think it's confusing and I think it's
such a small difference, but I don't
>> Wait a minute. My my amount is a little
I was reading the last digits from
below. It's It's close to that. It's
Hold on. 4565462.
>> This
>> Yep.
>> I'm getting confused.
4 million 565462.
>> Yeah, that was that's what I have in
QuickBooks. Yeah.
>> Is that what we passed?
>> Um, we'd have to go on to
>> Hang on. I'm going to do that right now.
I'm just not going to share my screen
while I do it.
>> Yep.
And so to make things even more
confusing, the same thing the same
problem happened in the 2425 adopted.
That number also
added up incorrectly. So, that amount is
off by $1,600.
All right. So,
budget going to referendum 125 is the
last document on the town website.
Oh, and it just gave me an error. It
won't open the file. Okay.
>> Oh, I was just I was just in it earlier.
Did you scroll down?
>> Hang on. It's opening this time. I just
had to back up and try again.
>> Right. But did you notice that there's a
whole bunch of different dates of
budgets on that?
>> Yeah.
>> 20. Okay.
>> I did. There's a whole list of them. And
what I picked was the the latest date.
>> Okay.
>> The one that went to referendum uh on
the 27th of May, which I believe was the
one that passed.
>> The number that's in here is 456546090.
>> Yeah. and mine rounded to 462. So that's
what I have too.
>> Oh, so that was for the 2526.
>> That's what we actually passed. Now the
it's in here as you know the past year
number is 4
348058.
>> What?
which is must be an actual.
>> That's what they have.
>> Yes. No. No. That's what they had. That
was I think their budget because my
actual my actual for 2425 is only
4,046948.
>> All right. Hang on a minute here.
>> Yeah. So, so the number that you just
read, um,
>> Rob,
>> the 3 million 34
4 million
>> 348. It's the exact number that's in
your chart.
>> Yeah, that's that's exactly what they
have.
>> Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Yep. I used their number and I um
probably should have gone back and used
their number as well for 25 26. I mean,
I don't know.
>> I I mean, I I prefer so there's no
discrepancy for between
>> things, but it's not um shoot.
You know, again, either way, it's such a
small change, but I I would go with
this number, which is what was in there.
Um, I understand that Lisa is off by a
buck 40. Um, but this is what was in
there that we I think we actually
passed. I don't know quite what happened
with the $200 here, you know, or or
rather not $200, you know, $1,800
>> 2,000 whatever. Okay. So I would put
this
>> and that's in slide slide number what?
>> This is in slide nine
>> and that will change the percentage
increase and it'll propagate down.
Hopefully all the formulas are in the
spec sheet.
>> Yeah, they are.
Um
it should
>> Okay. So all right. So to to review
>> Okay. Okay. So, we're keeping the 2425
number and then for the 2526 it's going
to be 4 million
>> 460
>> 461 it should be because it's 0.90. So,
I'll round it. So, it'll be four five65
461.
>> Okay.
>> Because there's ends in 90 cents. So,
>> sure. I would think rolling it up to
one.
>> Sure.
>> Okay. So,
that is good.
Um,
yeah, that's good. that.
>> And so this should
>> um
58. That should be
5%. That's exactly right. It should be
5%.
because that's what we that's what we
did remember. So okay and then the
question is whether
the cumulative numbers are right.
>> So I get accumulative 1699%
is that oh okay 16 99% that would make
sense
>> and then 26
>> Yep. 16.99. So 17
>> 17% Yep.
>> Yep.
And then
>> is that 10.91?
>> Is that cumulative number still correct?
>> We just I just double checked it on my I
just double checked the math. Yes,
>> it's good. Okay.
>> Yep. So that's 1091, right? 10.91.
>> And that'll match them and then it's not
confusing.
>> Um
>> and then
Yep. then everything else
>> number I haven't verified the last
number yet either. Um
>> so D
Okay. Increase if passed. If passed
equals
>> D12 minus D3 / G 29.76.
>> Yep.
Correct. All right. I just want to
quickly check one thing then.
>> So back on slide
Four.
The percent change number
499991.
Is that right? 499991.
The change
and the percentage were and that. Oh,
and this here too. We got to No, this is
right. So, it's just these two numbers.
We need to verify now cuz yours you you
had 96 in here
and we just altered it. So, it's 91. And
I just want to make sure this number is
therefore correct.
>> Correct.
>> Yes.
Are are we
are we good?
>> I don't know. You verifying the RAM
number and all that stuff.
>> No, I was I I'm going back to slide
four.
>> Yep. the AES BOE the endover BOE
because we changed to 10.91%
right because we just altered the the
numbers down there instead of 10.96
because you had 10.96 here I typed in
10.91 but I just want to double check
this raw dollar figure the 4990140
is accurate
that's the change
>> last year the same
>> so
Good point. Okay.
I should really be doing this upstairs
in the office so I can use multiple uh
>> screens. This is
>> monitors.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, we went from
AES. Where is it?
>> 63651.
>> Okay. So, AES,
right? So the proposed is now 10.91.
>> See I get 498 190
>> 63. Hold on. 651.
>> Um
can you go back to the other screen that
shows last year for one second?
Thank you.
Okay.
498190. Is that what you got?
>> That's what I got.
>> That's what I got, too.
I'm sorry. I've got to do this math
over. I don't know what happened to
income raes.
Then we you know I think this chart
should be fine.
This is town operating capital. I think
all these numbers are
fine.
That seems right.
got the right levy number in.
We fixed this slide already.
So, if it's helpful, I just saved this
with all my changes so we could always
compare.
Um,
RAM total budget history. This is their
big time. This is their big boy budget.
This is the full budget. Okay.
question.
>> Yeah.
>> On that, can you go back a slide? We're
talking about the sources. So, state and
federal All right, never mind. I was
going to say state and federal grants.
Does that like include the road money
that we get from the state at just
>> I don't think that our revenue number
has ever included town aid road.
>> Yeah, that's what I was saying. But you
could also mention it there or put it
there or something. I don't know.
>> I you know I if people ask about road
spending I'll I'll mention like look
what you see in our capital budget we
add 385 that's not the sum total of
um what road work we do. The problem is
I don't know off the I don't recall off
the top of my head what how much we get
in town aid road a year.
>> It's a little opaque to me.
>> Okay.
>> So it's a little hard for me to talk
about it intelligently. U obviously if I
could be provided that number then I'd
be happy to talk about it. But we've
never we've for some reason we've never
had it in the budget
>> should be in there. And it's funny that
we don't know that number like
>> yeah I think that's something I want to
work on.
I want to work on
>> one of those special funds that I
haven't been able to reconcile reconcile
yet.
>> So I hate to give a number that is
incorrect.
>> Yeah.
>> Um it is is recorded here much
differently than I have ever recorded
it. So I'm not confident giving that
number either because I don't
>> I don't understand what they did why
they did it. So I don't want to give out
a false number. We just got in 123,000,
but did we get another one last fall,
which would be 246,000? I don't know. I
haven't had time to go back and look.
So,
>> yeah. I don't know how many installments
we get,
>> right?
And if they're the same, even if they're
different amounts or two of the same
amount. I I can't tell from what's been
recorded. So, I have to go in and do
some research.
>> Sorry about that. I just haven't I can't
I can't get there.
So the last slides here guys are you
know between Liz and I we kind of worked
out like explaining to people what this
means to them. This is a snapshot of
okay this is our mill rate calculation
like taken from that chart that we use
but then you know an explanation of okay
the grand list for motor vehicles
therefore this is how much you can raise
for motor vehicles total
this is this then leaves how much we
have to raise from other taxation and we
have this as our
>> real estate
>> list for real estate.
>> And then so then we did a real estate
assessment value. You know, if your
house is valued this, this this this,
here's what you paid last year, here's
what you would go ahead and pay this
year if we passed this budget. And
here's your difference.
Um,
and then with the auto assessment. Oh,
this was the other thing. Do you
remember this was this looks weird
because it's 7,600. Why? Why? These are
nice round numbers. wise this year.
Yeah, that's my car. I was I was
verifying and making sure it's right.
So, and as Liz helpfully said, that's
Rob's beater. So, we could take that
off. I think
>> I took the name off, though. I didn't
say anything.
>> You did. You took off, but
I I just think it looks weird. Uh
>> we could take it out.
>> Yeah. I mean, it was just for me. It was
me trying to verify. How do I delete a a
row in this? Can I delete a row? It
doesn't matter because I'm going to do
it on the on the master here anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, that's fine. I'm just saving my
own version just so I have it. Um, but
you you will have the master. But I
would take that out because it was
weird.
>> We leave it in there. People might have
cars that are le, you know, less than
$10,000,
>> right? If we were going to leave it in
there, I' I'd change it,
>> you know, I'd change it to make it, you
know, because this is just weird. Why
76?
>> Yeah. 7500's nice.
>> Maybe make it a $5,500 car.
>> I don't know. I don't know who's got
that, but yeah, sure. I don't care. It's
just this one sticks out because it's a
weird number in comparison to these. And
it was just me saying, "All right, am I
doing this right? Does this check out?"
And I looked up my taxes. Yep, that's
what I pay. Da da da. That's what I owe
this year. So, it was just
>> it was a change to 55.
>> I'll change it to 5,500.
>> I mean, either do I would say either do
5,000 or 7500. You know what I mean?
Because it's nice. Like, we have 10, we
have 20, we have 30.
I don't know who's got a $5,000
assessment on their car, but if you did.
>> Okay. All right. So, 7500.
>> Yeah, let's do 7500.
>> All right.
>> And so, it'll be it'll be slightly
different. It'll be, you know, 230
something blah blah blah.
As you can see, the differences here are
poultry. It's the the the meat of course
is in your house.
And then that's it. That's just the
>> Looks good. Okay.
So, we'll fix this.
>> If we go back to the budget snapshot.
>> Sure. Hang on.
>> That dollar number does change because
the dollar the the difference changes to
four.
>> Shoot.
>> Um, where is it?
>> I had 4981 190.
4981 190.
>> Is that right? Is that what you get?
>> Yep.
>> All right. I I think this thing is I
think we've sorted it out. The budget
breakdown these this chart shouldn't be
altered by any of what we just did
because this is a this year only and
using this year's requests. So, this
should all be
fine.
Okay,
>> we don't have the totals there, but we
have them on like every other slide, so
whatever. Um, yeah. I mean, honestly, I
think this is good to go now with those
alterations.
Um,
you know,
the only other thing I was considering
this line here, you know, maintenance is
not a driver. I, you know, if it's
you're just maintaining, that's not
driving an increase. That was the thing
I I kind of said I I might well, you
know, pull that.
>> So, here's here's what's my thought
about that. Um, my thought about that is
we know that a lot of uh we know the
COVID funding is going away and they and
probably every other school in
Connecticut um have counted on
u that money for special education needs
and probably other things. So that's my
interpretation of what that means.
Maintenance of special education costs
despite the fact that the fund funding
is going away.
>> Um
>> yeah, you still have the obligation
whether or not you get help with it.
Okay. So we I'm happy to leave it to I
was just like maintenance. Okay. I think
I think the word maintenance is what was
messing with my head. That's cool.
>> Um this here I'm just putting it for my
own notification. This is my
understanding of the grant the specific
grants that were lost.
>> One is lost. I think the 45,000 for the
psychologist was flat out lost. It just
expires at the end of June. And then
this my understanding is there was a
reduction. I don't know the order of
magnitude of that as I wasn't I didn't
have time to get that information and I
I suspect it's not as as much but I I
can't I don't know off the top of my
head. I think our other numbers add up
nicely. Did we have a town? Hang on.
Ram budget levy.
We didn't really have a driver, you
know, page for the town budget, did we?
>> That's okay. We can talk about that.
>> I was going to ask that
>> because it's mostly it's mostly salary
increases.
>> Yeah, except for there's a $44,000
increase because of the 21% insurance
and it's mentioned in
>> it's the insurance. It is. It absolutely
is. It's the insurance and it's raises.
>> You should probably
>> raises benefits and the healthcare
insurance increase that that AS is
dealing with as well,
>> right?
>> You probably should put a slide in
there. I mean, if you show the school,
you should probably show the right.
>> Yeah,
>> you know, basically
>> Yeah, I could have sworn we had a slide.
>> I did too. There was one the other day,
wasn't there?
>> Yeah, we should. We should get that
back. Um
>> Oh, those would be my three bullets. My
three bullets would be salary increases
um salary and benefits SL
salary/benefits or salary increases
benefit costs uh and then you could
either do it as a separate line or a
parenthetical with benefits saying
um 21% healthcare increase same as with
affects town too or something like that.
>> Yep.
>> Those are the drivers as far as I can
tell. I I don't think there's much else
in there that's worth a bullet point.
We've we made some little tweaks here or
there to this that the other. Um
>> so I
have little tweaks.
>> Oh yeah. Hi Louise.
>> Yeah. Um I still think we should put um
the superintendent salary in there
>> as a driver because it's not a 3%
increase. It's 11% increase. And yes, it
is contract.
But does the public know?
I mean, they're going to figure, okay,
contract is 3%.
And they're going to figure, okay, she's
getting 3%, too. So, I really think, you
know, we're we're doing a uh a disjust
uh
what's the word?
>> Disservice.
>> Disservice for not Yeah. to the public
for not just putting that bullet on
there. And you know, my disagreement
with that is just the order of
magnitude. It's $10,000. There are
multiple things in the town budget that
we're not singling out a particular
employee and saying they're getting 10
grand. I mean,
>> this is not this is an employee, but
it's a superintendent. And
>> that's different than like,
>> you know, when we when we went back and
forth with with Lisa type of situation.
That's different because well, I already
wrote everything on that. I just feel
pretty strong about having it on there
because you're blindfolding the public.
>> I don't I I don't believe we're
blindfolding them at all. It's in the
BOE budget. It's been discussed
repeatedly. They've had they came back
to it at repeated meetings. I mean, and
I think it's been all around town, but I
I really don't think it's being hidden.
It's just to me, it just doesn't make
the the cut. Everything else on this
list is is more money than that. So
that's why I did it the way I did it. Um
that's my take. Oh, by the way, we got
to fix this one right here. 10.91
>> on this here
>> on this slide. This is eight.
>> Oh, BOE.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> We changed we fixed that.
>> Can you still hear?
>> So that's my take. I understand your
take, Louise. I mean, we've kind of gone
back and forth on it. Um,
>> is it going to be in the BOE
presentation where they go through all
the different things that we have as I
don't think they're going to be able to
have a presentation. I was just texting
back and forth with Caitlyn tonight. She
wanted to do a presentation,
>> but nothing got put on
the town website. She had contacted I
guess she had been talking to Jeff
Magcguire and thought things something
was going to be sent out about it to do
a 6:30 start time so they could do a
thing and none of that ever happened and
now we're 24 hours out.
>> So I think they're going to be there and
they can answer questions um from the
public but I don't think they're going
to there's no setup for them to do a
presentation and I don't think
>> yeah the public's not going to see the
line by line of the BOE then. Well, they
wanted to print their budget out for
handouts. They That's the other thing
they were asking about today, and I want
to try to make sure that that happens at
town hall tomorrow,
>> that we print out a bunch of those.
>> Does anyone else on the board feel the
same as I do, or is it just me?
>> Well, Kim was with you. She's not here
tonight, but she I know she voiced her
agreement.
>> Yeah, I'm with you as well. Um
>> I I think there's other other issues
that I have surrounding the way that all
happened. Um
>> whether or not
>> Heather, how do you feel, Heather?
>> I was going to say I I don't agree only
because
someone else on the town is getting the
same dollar amount budget and we we like
that and we agree with that so we're not
calling it out. But this one some of us
don't like or we don't like so we are
calling it out. That doesn't seem fair.
Well, based on what the other person
did, it's it's way under what she should
be getting in the first place.
>> I agree. I agree. We all agree.
See, this is the thing
whether we threw enough money into that,
>> right? I agree. I just feel like we
can't be calling out one and not the
other.
>> Can I could I just before we come back
to this issue, just before I forget
about it, just apologies, my brain's
ping ponging. Um, Liz, when we add a
slide for the bullet points for the
budget drivers for the town budget,
>> I would put it between six and seven
>> or between seven and eight.
>> Oh, okay. Between seven and eight.
>> Actually, yeah, between six and seven or
seven and eight because I'm trying to
find the best spot to say, okay, where's
the the town budget driver? Because we
do, if you look at where the AES board
of education budget
>> Yep. It's there. Actually, we could put
it we could put it Where's our Andover?
We could put it between five and six
>> because we have town operating capital
below it. We have the numbers below it.
So, it could be between five and six,
>> right? So, it should it'll be the new
slide number.
>> The idea being like it's the same format
of we explained the budget drivers for
this, here's the numbers, then we
explained the budget drivers for AES,
here's the numbers. So, it's consistent.
>> Yep. So, it'll go right after budget
breakdown the with the chart
>> right right after the pie chart. That
would be I think that's the place to put
it.
>> Salary increases.
>> Ron, I see you got your hand up. Give me
a moment here. I um let me just get
through this bit and I'll call on you.
>> I think we're not in public speak right
now.
>> Yeah, I know we're not. So, I think
there's public speak at the end. I'll
get to you. So, I just wanted to say
that to Louise, I totally agree that the
other person should be getting at maybe
possibly more than what they're getting.
So, I don't disagree with that.
>> Right.
>> And and I'll just add to that, but a lot
of people make the case that Val is
underpaid, too. She's the lowest paid
superintendent in the in the school in
the state. I mean,
>> right. My people,
>> yeah, we can't we can't call out one and
not the other because we agree with one
and not the other or whatever. So I just
>> that's part of
>> that's that's sort of my take and and as
well but I wasn't my main driver. My
main my main explanation for why I did
it the way I did it. It's just that it
doesn't make the cut in terms of you
know raw dollar value. So I mean the
fifth grade teacher what's that 50 60
grand in salary probably plus benefits.
The psychologist you know that's it's 45
really you know we have the 90,000 for
the psychologist but it's really you
know it's the the loss of the $45,000
grant. All of these are multiples of
10,000. So that's why I did what I did.
I think that's the right call. And I
don't want to set up I I really don't
want a situation where we call out a
particular yes, she's the
superintendent, but a particular person
and then what is it? We're going to go
through we're going to pick at every
individual salary increase on the town
side too to you know get into
that.
>> So that's why I did it the way I did it.
That's my that's my take. Um, I'll let
you guys finish what you guys want to
discuss. Uh, and then hopefully we could
>> We haven't heard from Nick.
>> Yeah,
>> I was just wondering, is that even kind
of our spot to comment? It seems like we
elected the BOE to essentially make
decisions on that behalf.
>> We It's their call to to put it in their
budget that we could we could highlight.
This is our this is ourformational
slide. So, no, it's not that we can't
put something on there. I just don't
think it's
I I just don't want to do it for the
reasons already given. But I think, you
know, there's nothing preventing us from
like they made they're the ones who made
the call in at in their meeting to hand
out that raise and put that in their
budget. That's their take.
>> U but it's the same thing for any part
of their budget that they've approved.
It doesn't mean that it can't be listed
in a bullet point. you know, that's
that's not how I would think of it.
>> You you said they they are handing out
their budget line by line so people can
>> I want to I want to get that as a
handout and let me just double check
something. Um because I thought I was
getting um
>> Yeah, it should be passed out. Usually
there's copies at the front of the room.
>> Yeah, hang on. I was talking to Caitlyn
and here it is. Um Caitlyn was texting
me tonight asking if we have copies of
the school budget printed for people for
reference. Um, you know, for months
we've been saying we'd have a Q&A da da
da. So, tomorrow, one of the things I
need to make sure we do is print out an
appropriate number of the school budget
document. Um, so that we can hand it out
as a handout. I need to get down to town
hall and get that done. Um,
>> so would that be a line by line or would
that be like a summary?
It
>> um I'd have to look at what they sent us
again. Um, hang on a minute.
>> Yeah, it probably be the the PDF that
they sent us. I'm guessing
>> it's on their website, right? Because
that's where I got the figures from was
on their website.
>> They had also sent us something. Uh,
hang on a minute.
I just got to find uh there's been a lot
of emails.
>> We used to have the school print them
for us and then bring them to the
meeting. I hate to have you do the work
and town hall do the work when it's
their budget and they want to present
it.
>> Well, I thought I thought they always
said that they they printed it at the
town. I now I'm confused as to who
printed what.
>> I Well, they I mean
I don't know. I mean, you weren't here
last year. I I don't recall.
>> I don't recall because I didn't run it.
>> Um
>> No, I'm just saying where I worked
before. They always provided
>> where you where you worked before. Yeah.
>> It was a beautiful budget. it was color
and it was, you know, bound together and
all this stuff with all these
explanations, but we just do black and
white. So, um, but the school office
provided it so that we didn't have to
print it.
>> There it is. Jodianne sent us a Yeah,
the the the chart on the 7th yesterday.
So, let me save this to my drive.
>> Can you share that, Rob?
>> One moment.
>> Okay. I just wanted to get it saved and
then uh
okay sorry the thing is ah
too many things
can people see um
hang on
>> all right Um
just looking for
this looks pretty line by line.
Just looking for superintendent. Hang
on.
Will it let you control F?
>> So my problem with this is
>> it it should be populated fully. The
last column should be fully populated so
it's transparent to the voters.
>> This year they just did the subtotals.
>> Yes.
>> If I if I had done this chart I would
have done it that way. You're right.
>> So it doesn't reflect 11%.
>> What? It just
>> it doesn't reflect 11% for the
superintendent.
>> It just it's kind of buried into the
calculation of all of them.
>> So the three Yeah. 3% is going to bring
down
a lot. The 11%.
>> 3%. What do you mean?
>> Well, the other It's
>> Oh, you found it.
>> It's It's here,
>> right?
>> And it's 5,000. Oh, I think what it was
is, didn't they give her It was It was
multiple years. Is it's a multi-year
contract, I think.
>> Yes.
>> So, this year it's 5,000.
>> Uh I think that's supposed to be
>> it was 10,
>> but I thought it was for some reason I
thought she was at 90 and and was going
up.
>> I I don't know if that's next year.
>> That's what I thought, too.
>> Um, wait a minute.
I thought everything they sent over
showed 90 to 100.
>> Yes. I I Is that an older one you're
looking at?
>> This is literally She emailed this
yesterday. Jod emailed us yesterday.
>> That's not right.
>> Showing 2025 2026. It's not the 20.
>> It's supposed to be 26 27. That's the
wrong
>> 26 recommended. Oh, okay. This is This
is last year's.
>> Yeah, it's wrong.
>> This is supposed to be 26 27 because it
is 100,000.
>> Yep. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. I see
what happened here. This was an email
that I pulled from looking at um when we
were trying to find out that $2,000
discrepancy that Liz and I were talking
about earlier. That's what happened. My
fault, guys.
>> All right.
>> Can I just make a comment on on that
>> only because well, what I find is you
were worried about the percentages. What
I find is like if someone has a very
small budget of $800,
even a $100 change looks like they're
getting, you know, a 10%. It's best if
you could put the difference, the
decrease or increase and then the
percentage because something that might
say 7%age of last year for one row might
only be $25 and it might be 7% for
another row of $2,500. So, by not
putting that increase and decrease in
there, it's kind of not really showing
what they're going up and down.
>> It's just giving you a percentage. It
depends on the size of that row. Yep.
>> To what that percentage is.
>> Good point, Lisa.
>> So, it it's kind of hard because people
look at, oh my gosh, that's 10%. Well,
it might only be $10 because your total
bill was $100.
>> So, if you just put a percentage, it
kind of doesn't tell people where the
real money is. like in ours, I picked up
right away and said, "Oh, 44,000 went up
21%, went up 44,000." But you can't do
that in this budget. You don't know how
much that percentage is because there's
no dollars for an increased decrease.
>> I pulled their budget. I pulled the
budget from their website. Um,
so we can see this year's. Just give me
a moment.
>> I agree with Lisa though. That's a great
way for people to get hung up.
>> Yeah. And it might be to their benefit
even at some points because, you know,
people are saying, "Oh, it went up 10%."
Well, like I said, that money if you
have a $100 line item, that's only $10.
So, you really can't complain about a
10% increase if it's only $10.
>> That's like what Liz was saying, this
whole that whole last column should be
filled in,
>> right?
>> But well,
>> what what Lisa is saying, Heather, is
that you see a big percentage that only
represents a few dollars,
>> right? It should be dollar the dollars
and the percentages should be
>> two difference in dollars and
percentage.
>> Can you maybe Rob ask them if
>> they're going to they they should print
out their budget and could they have two
columns at the end? One with the dollar
difference and this percentage
difference populated throughout the
document.
>> I I can ask I mean at this at this this
is the wrong one. Hang on. I had it up.
>> Well, if they have they haven't printed
them yet.
>> I literally had it up. Hang on. Nope.
>> Oh, I see. Oh, it said it only has
percentage. Yeah, they should have a row
for dollars for sure.
>> Should have a row for dollars and
percentages.
>> There. Here it is.
>> If they want help, I can just forward
the I just forward the Excel
spreadsheet. I sent
>> Yeah, help us. I'm willing to help.
>> We're willing to help.
>> I could sit on a call with someone in
two seconds and we could go through
this.
>> It would be so fast and easy in Excel.
It'd be
>> Is that already a dollar change?
Yes, subtotal. They subt
this year. This year has the subtotals,
but again, it's only subtotal. It's only
subt.
It's not throughout the whole thing.
It's just the subtotals. But there there
it is.
>> If they could just populate that all the
way, that would be really helpful.
>> That would be helpful. And an Excel
spreadsheet take minutes to do that to
Nick's point, right? You get the you
drag it down. Yep.
>> It's just Yeah.
I already did it. I got it right here.
>> You got it
>> even quicker if you steal Liz's formula.
>> I uploaded it.
>> I just don't know if there's there's
time for uh you know Jodianne to do that
tomorrow and then and then for us to
print it. But I I agree with you guys.
It's it's a nice
>> to have the the both the percentage and
the raw dollar value in in every field.
>> Yeah,
>> I think that is a nicer way.
>> It doesn't take any time to do it.
second.
>> I mean, for them to print it, even if
they printed it from their admin system,
it's probably
a snap.
Otherwise, I mean, I could share this
Excel spreadsheet and it would be done.
It's just you're get they have to copy
it anyway.
>> I am in the spreadsheet now, though,
too. And I see they did reflect the
salary correctly.
>> Yeah, it's in there, right? It's just I
had to get the right budget. That was
that was, you know, my mistake.
>> I was I was racing.
>> All right. I have this saved now. Um, so
I
>> I updated I updated the drivers, too. I
found the the
what you call it the slide from the
other the original
and the
>> Oh, for the end of the town the town.
>> Yeah. And the drivers that we had were
increased legal retainer fees due to
anticipated easement projects.
>> Oh, right.
>> Contractual slashstandard salary
increases, additional funding for um for
potential new admin assistant for town
administrator, additional funding for
assistant to community and senior center
director.
uh increased funding for community and
senior center programs and decreased
capital 2.92%.
>> Oh, that's right. So, those are much
smaller drivers, you know, on the town
side. I mean, just I mean, I don't know
if there are really bigger ones to to
add than that, but those Yeah. Okay.
Some of those
>> add the insurance one to that.
>> Yeah, we got to add the insurance.
>> Yeah, the insurance isn't in there.
>> You know, healthcare cost increase. Um,
you know,
plus 21%.
Um,
all right. So, how do you want me to?
Okay. So, number one,
I could ask,
you know, the board of edjodval
for a version of this chart with, you
know, with all the with all the fields
filled in uh instead of just the
subtotals and then work on getting them
printed out. I was kicking around how
many printouts we might want to have
available for the meeting. Uh, I was
asking people down in town hall today,
how many do we normally do? Somebody
threw out a number of 30 and I thought
that was low.
>> That's way too low.
>> People share. People can share like if
they're couples, but that still seems
low to me. And I think we
>> like a 100 would be needed. No,
>> I I would think at least 100, right?
>> That's what we used was to deal with
100,000.
>> Yeah. Better to have too many than too
little.
And even at 100, I think that I think
that's probably not going to be enough.
I mean, we should tell each family only
to take one, obviously.
>> Yeah, definitely. We want people to
share.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, I People usually do,
>> but that's why we had the school do
their own printing, too. And then the
town didn't have to do 200.
>> So,
>> Well, that's true. They should do their
own.
>> They should do their own.
>> Yeah.
>> Just a question. What I don't know what
what they've got for printers, but I'll
ask them.
>> I'm sure they I know they have printers.
I just I don't know why in the past. I
know that in the past or at least I
think that in the past that it's the
basically all the stuff for the for the
town budget meeting was printed on a
town hall. But I I'll ask about that.
So my takeaways from this is to talk to
them about this chart. See if we can get
it a little get a little more details in
there propagated throughout it. It's
just pull up your Excel and,
you know, fill in the fields, which as
we've discussed is is a five minute
issue, and then repdf it, I guess, and
get it printed out. Uh, there's five
pages. It's not too bad.
It's not too bad.
I think they've got a different number
in here. This is the discussion we had.
But, um,
>> so I'll talk to send that to you. Would
they do would they even entertain that
possibility or
>> Sure. I mean, if you want to send it to
me, I can I can at least dangle that as
an option. Like, hey, you know, we did
we did it oursel. You know, Liz did it
and you know, we think it's right.
>> Don't use my name. Don't use my name.
>> This your work, Rob. Well, I had some
help with it.
Uh
anyway, uh no, really, I I'll I'll
offer. So, I'll try to work on that. I'm
also going to try to get um one of the
documents I was thinking of printing out
as a handout is Lisa and I worked on it
a little bit uh yesterday. The the sum
what I would call our sort of taxation
summary spreadsheet. The one that used
to be a tab on our budget spreadsheet,
the one with the mil rate calculation
and the two raised by taxation
calculations. That's a one pager,
right? It struck me as a good snapshot
handout. So, I was thinking about
printing out a bunch of those. Wait, say
that again. I'm sorry. I I
>> No, the the Excel chart that it's it's
entitled like mill rate calculation or
something like that. But it has
>> Oh, yes.
>> the taxation. It's a one-page document.
>> It's got what we're raising by taxation
and stuff about the mill rate.
>> It's a little confusing because of
course that page has a combined mill
rate, but we can talk about that.
>> We explain it at in in depth in our
presentation. I was thinking as a
handout that might be useful
>> because it's a snapshot.
>> Yep.
>> So, I have a I have a physical copy of
it and I have a copy of it. You know,
Lisa's got a copy of it and you know, so
if I'm in there at town hall tomorrow
getting things printed out, that's that
could be one of them.
>> Kate already did it.
>> Oh, Kate already did.
>> Yeah, it's at the end of the packet and
I think it's posted at the end of the
packet, too. Okay.
>> End of the budget book because you said
you wanted it yesterday, so we went with
it.
>> Okay. Bless her. Bless her. We need to
bring her flowers.
>> She's amazing.
>> A great check today. But of
>> course, this morning, Rob, I called her
at 8:15. I said, "Don't print it yet. I
have to look at that lap last page
because I thought I put in the page that
I printed for me with my other
calculations." And I said, "Nope, go
ahead, Kate. Go ahead. Go
>> ahead. Go ahead." Okay. So, we've got
that. Um,
and then Liz, you had talked about we
had talked about information,
theformational kind of where to look up
certain things, slides. What do you what
are we doing with that?
>> Yep. I sent that to you uh separately as
handouts. How to find how to find where
um
how to find their assessment.
>> Yeah. like those. Did you want to pass
those out or
>> I think those are those are nice to
have. Um
where All right, hang on a minute.
Latest and greatest. No, that's not
that. It was an earlier email than the
>> It was in one of the recent ones. I
mean, I can send it again if you need me
to.
>> Hang on. I'm just checking.
I'm just looking at my emails. I'm
looking for an attachment. That's all. Y
>> because there's a there's been a fair
bit of chatter. I don't I don't see
I don't I'm sorry. I don't see a
separate
>> I can resend them.
>> Okay. Did you send them? If you just if
you type in my name, you might have
gotten my personal email. Maybe
>> that could happen sometimes.
>> That was the sheet that had like
>> the town on it and you showed where to
look it up. That I saw that.
>> I don't I don't know why I'm not finding
it. That's weird.
>> Why? What?
>> You know, I'll just send it again.
>> Yeah. Thanks. Send it again.
I'm going to make notes here to print
out.
Okay.
>> Child
budget.
So there were two, right? One for one
for assessment, one for taxes.
>> Yep, I found it. Right. Great.
Great.
Okay. So, there's that.
So, I could I can forward them to uh
Kate to be so she has them and I I can
also go over I'll have my laptop with
me. I'll go town hall and between the
two of us, we'll make sure that those
get done
if those are useful.
So, I have a question in regards to the
hearing. If someone were to make a
motion to reduce a budget,
are we going to vote or not vote on it?
>> The motions at the town budget, I mean,
people, we vote. We don't vote like
that. The the whole
>> I thought that Yeah. I thought last year
because of the charter I thought
>> the what the charter is is that that at
the end of the town budget meeting it's
going to referendum but
>> yeah that I know
>> if a motion were to pass
at town meeting my understanding is that
would take effect
>> and then it goes to referendum that way.
>> Absolutely. Anybody can make a motion.
It'll be seconded, discussed and voted
on at that meeting. The difference
between the the process that started
last year, the charter change, it used
to be town meeting could just reject it
and send it back. Now it's going to go
on a referendum one way or the other,
but with the caveat that if a motion to
cut something passes, that goes in.
>> It passes.
>> Okay.
>> Somebody go down, right? You can't go
up.
>> Can't go up. Can't go up. We're going to
address that to the public, right?
>> Always. We always say that. In fact,
>> is that in the slide presentation?
>> I don't remember if it's in the slide,
but Wally always says it when he's made
me say it.
>> Uh I'll uh I'll probably mention it at
the end, you know.
>> Yeah, I would.
>> It's a charter thing. It's a charter
thing. You can
>> Okay.
>> You can make a motion to cut something.
This is this is not a place where you
can make a motion to increase something.
>> That's just straight from the charter.
Um, Rob, did we want to talk about that
BAA situation?
>> That's right. We wanted to talk about
that again. We wanted to circle back on
that 300 bucks we cut from the
>> the $320.
>> We do this, we change all our numbers
again. Um,
>> no, we don't. No, we No, we do not.
Nope. We I We can take $320 from
something else.
>> Wasn't it 300 even?
>> It's 320, I believe. I think it's 320.
Pretty sure pretty I'm just gonna pull
up my my chart. But um hold on.
>> That's the mill rate. That's the RAM
offset board budget prelim 24 I think is
the last 324 is the last one I had. So
they had asked for 300 or 320 whatever
it is. Uh to be able to look up it's
like a VIN lookup, right, for people's
auto evaluation assessments.
>> Yes. and we got talked into cutting
that.
Um, but Liz, remind me, we were talking
about it and we kind of, the two of us
kind of were like, "Wait a minute, is
that the right answer?" So, we wanted to
raise it again.
>> We kind of felt like they need this to
be able to do their job and
it costs them money if they want to look
it up and they only have like a limited
number. And I think the town's opinion
is that
if a person disagrees with um their
valuation of their car, they need to
come and show the proof. And so
basically the BAA is just going to say,
"Okay, well they can't prove them wrong
because they can't get access to the
system to do it." Um so their opinion
would be that we'll just have to pass it
along. Um, and I don't know, $320 seems
pretty pretty pency to me, and I think
we should allow them to have the $320,
and we take $320 out of either the rec
commission or the garden.
The rec commission budget is up kind of
pretty high this year.
>> I'm sorry, Liz. The what?
>> The commission what budget?
>> The the recck commission. either the rec
commission commission
>> or the garden or the garden.
>> Um and just wonder what you guys thought
about that.
>> I kind of agree that they should have
the proper tools
and it was explained to us that
supposedly is the burden's on the
person, right? The homeowner or the auto
owner is how it was explained to us. But
a board that's doing a review should
have the proper tools
>> to do the job. And for $320, to your
point, Liz, it's $320.
Not going to move and and we could take
it easily from another budget like you
said. So,
>> I almost want to write him a check and
just say, "Here, go get what you need,
>> you know." But I mean, $32.
>> I think it's 384
>> if I remember right. I thought the
amount was 384.
>> 384.
>> Sorry. All right. I'm gonna I'm looking
back at the older old at older
spreadsheets. I'll see if I can find
where we cut where we actually
>> and instead of changing all the numbers.
I would agree, Liz, let's just take it
from one budget and move it to another
if we're going to do that. I guess we
have to have a motion to do that, right?
>> Yeah, we're going to have to this is
going to if if we want to do this, we'll
have to move and we'll have to move to
take it from here to there and so forth.
Just give me a moment, guys. I'm trying
to find I'm back I'm backing up into
early March to find
>> the the chart where I saved our cut.
You are correct. 380.
Ah,
>> I would have bet money on 320
>> and I was here. I thought 300. So guess
what?
>> 380 is the number that they had
requested.
>> Wasn't there another
>> We did cut the garden slightly for their
request.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, wasn't there wasn't there another
issue?
>> Wasn't a huge cut, but we did do a
little bit of a cut there already. Um,
>> hey guys.
>> Yeah.
>> Wasn't there also an issue though raised
that the assessor has that software and
the board of assessment appeals should
be able to use it or something like
that?
>> Then he will not let them. He will not
let them.
>> Nope. He will not let them.
>> That's crazy. That's just
>> I know. It's ridiculous.
>> It's like
>> I don't know what's I don't really know
what's going on there. Um,
>> you cannot It It's one of those
positions that you can't even fight. So,
it's not even worth it.
>> Well, like again, for $380, is it worth
the fight? I guess. But
>> I mean, it's really just a it's really,
you know, can we have $380 so we can,
you know, when somebody comes in a town
hall, we can help them out and show them
the information. And, you know, my just
my general approach to things would be
sure, here, let me look that up for you.
You know, that's just how I would
approach it if it were me. So, I would
do it. My only question is to make this
balance out like where I mean I honestly
if we had more time I I might even say
just stick 380 back in. It's it's such a
small number.
>> Just pull from somewhere else. You want
to find cuts so we don't have to redo
all our math.
>> Just pull from somewhere else.
I would I would take it out a community
garden because I believe their the um
seeds was like in the 300 something and
they were given seeds, donated seeds. So
they I would take it out of that.
>> Why doesn't somebody make a motion? A
complete motion.
>> Wait, I had a Didn't I thought I thought
the seeds I agree with Louise, but then
I thought they didn't take it out of
their budget for or that they already
did. I'm sorry. That they already did.
They were donated. The seats were all
donated,
>> right? But I thought they already took
that number out of their budget, but
they didn't.
>> No, I $300 in their budget for that.
>> I know. So, that's a good spot to take
it from.
>> We had they had requested originally
37.85
and we cut that down to 3560. Okay. Um,
which was last year's number.
Um, just FYI. Now there's also there's
another increase in in the budget for
programs. It says
>> programs for the rec committee.
>> Rec commission. That's rec commission.
Sorry.
>> Yep.
>> Um
registration. They they had an answer
for this. There was a concert and a
registration was $1,400 and 900 for
registration for something acronym I
don't know. And additional concert $500.
So, you know,
if at this point like we we had we had
gotten the community garden to a zero
increase, if we cut them uh
additionally, then we would be actually
cutting their budget. Just just to be
clear so everybody understands what
we're doing. Um,
>> can I just have a question on so when
they present their budget like any of
the departments and then we went through
it.
When did they when did they find out
what we like
that we agreed with their budget or we
don't or like do they already think we
>> Well, they could be on any of these
calls, Heather, or they'll find out when
the budget passes. Okay. Nothing's
official. Nothing's official until the
budget passes anyway. Right. Okay.
I'd rather cut from the garden than the
wreck because I think the wreck
department actually accommodates more of
the public than the garden.
>> That's true.
>> I'm just thinking if there's any way we
could distribute this, but okay. I mean
that if you want to do a one for one, I
mean I'm not going to
>> I mean the up is up $1,400. That's I
don't know. It seems like a
>> Yeah, there was there were two items
there. It was a $500 and a $900
justification for that. Yeah,
>> for the concert.
>> Concert was 500 bucks and then
registration
uh for again there's an acronym that I
don't recall. I'm sorry. I don't
>> I know. WSC. I don't remember what that
is.
>> I remember Yeah, I remember that too.
>> There it is. W I CSC. Um, so I don't
want to mess with that because that
sounds like it's backed up and I know we
talked about it. I just, you know, we I
Yeah. So, all right.
Rather than I mean, it's $380 and we're
spending a fair bit of time here. So, do
we want to just somebody want to make a
motion and we'll figure it out and if I
feel bad about it later, I'll donate
something to community garden.
>> There you go. I'll make a motion to cut
the community bark garden by $380
and to fund the BAA
line for the software they need.
>> I'll second it.
>> Yeah, let me just So, just so everybody
understands, it's a cut to 603870
reccomission. Oh, sorry. 603890
community garden proposed by Liz,
seconded by Bill with transferring that
380, decreasing that line by $380 and
then take taking it up to
let me find it so we have it for the
notes.
>> It's line it
>> 4155.
>> It's 155- question mark because it
doesn't exist. So now, do you want us to
reprint those 50 budgets that we already
printed because of this change?
>> Oh no. Oh god.
>> Oh no.
>> Well, I didn't think there we didn't
think there were going to be changes
tonight. And if people people have
already come into town hall and asked
for a copy of the budget because they
didn't want to print it.
>> All right. You know what? Then
>> you know, we just so we just we just
told them at the beginning of the uh at
the meeting that there was a slight
change. So, if you've if you've already
printed, you've already have a copy of
the budget,
make this change.
>> Could we just do that?
>> We could.
>> Part of me is like
>> if we could figure out what two pages we
might have to change and insert them, we
could do that. But again, that's just I
don't know.
>> It's a real pain. Yeah,
>> it makes more makes more sense that we
just to Liz's point just tell people
that change this to this number, change
this line item to this number.
>> Make another note on the It's already on
the website. It's on the town website,
too, I believe. So, we'd have to change
that one, too.
>> Okay.
>> You said there Wait a sec. You said 50
of them are already printed.
>> Yes.
>> So, what if I come in tomorrow and just
make hand change notes on those 50? I
don't
>> Oh my gosh. You don't want to do that,
Liz.
>> You get a cramp. It's It's 50. It's 50
pages. Two numbers. Two little numbers.
>> I can help you.
>> I'm kidding.
>> I mean,
>> so that we don't have to reprint them is
what I'm saying.
>> Yeah. We don't want to.
So,
>> I'll be at the meeting, but I'm not
there at the town hall. So, if you want
to talk to I don't I'm not sure, Kate. I
don't know.
>> Right.
Or or we simply make a little
announcement or um
or print off a notice for the front of
those pages and say, "Please note a
change this change to these two lines."
>> Could type that up. Yep.
>> And then just attach that to those that
are already printed
>> like an addendum.
>> Yeah.
Yeah,
>> that works, I think. Right.
>> I like I like that word.
>> Indentum. Sure. Good word, Louise.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. Um,
the motion on the floor is to reduce
603-890
community garden by $380
and to increase line 115- well question
mark because it doesn't exist right now
by $380 for DMV lookup access for the
BAA. Liz motioned, bill seconded. We've
discussed. Does anybody have anything
further on this motion or should we
vote?
There's nothing further. I'll take a
vote. Bill,
>> yay.
>> Liz,
>> yes.
>> Heather,
>> uh, yay.
>> Nick,
>> yes.
>> And I too will Oh, Louise,
>> And I'll vote yes as well. That's 6.
>> One in favor. Yeah.
>> I'll I'll give my mayor a culpas next
time I see the community garden folks.
Um, okay. So, that's done and we'll one
way or another sort it out tomorrow uh
so that people aren't confused. Um I
think that was the only change that we
contemplated tonight, Liz, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> When we met.
>> So,
so it's 4155-
We don't know, right?
>> Yeah.
>> 4155-
>> for what? Community garden, Liz. Or for
what? So for the court of assessment
appeals
okay that's way down the bottom I can
get it for you
>> I have
>> it's it's
>> 115-336
it would be
>> sorry 4155 is the overall
>> thing and then underneath that it's 155
well
>> 335 for training so it would have to be
to be determined because we don't have
it yet
>> right
>> can we just make it oh TBD it's gonna be
TBD not okay
>> I'm gonna have to search for That was
how it was in the budget document when
we first got it.
>> Yep.
>> That's right.
Okay. Um,
so Liz, you'll send around once you've
completed your edits, you'll send around
the presentation again.
>> Yep.
>> Uh, the final.
>> Awesome. And yeah, do do resend me
thoseformational slides because I don't
know why in the world I can't find them
in my email. I apologize, but I just
can't find
I will try and talk to AS folks tonight,
tomorrow regarding adding a little more
information to the budget as we
discussed and getting those printed.
Um,
do we have anything further or can we
move on to public speak? I can let
finally let Ron talk.
>> I certainly move on to public speak. His
arm must be killing him.
>> His AI arm.
>> All right, I'm gonna I'm gonna go ahead
and do that then. Sorry, Ron, for all
that waiting.
>> No, not a problem. Not a problem. Great
job with this. The only thing I was
going to agree with was what Louise was
saying, too. But I can see now from what
you're showing on the BOE, it does show
her salary in there. Everything should
be transparent so people can make their
own decisions when they're there. Please
get them to fill out the two lines
because I also agree, Louise, that the
price the the the percentage versus the
amount of money can be a big difference
sometimes. Okay. So that way people have
a full layout of it and and I think
great job taking it from the garden
people and giving what they need to have
people justify their car tax. But that
was my only thing is I I it should be
posted even if the other person even if
you had to put the person that's
underpaid in in the town budget and know
and say this is an increase and this is
why and then have Valerie's on there but
since Valerie's salary is is written out
in there and what it is people can
actually see it and theirs just so
everything is just transparent to
everybody in town. That's important that
people understand. That's
>> great job. Great job and hard work
everybody. Thank you for doing that.
>> You're welcome. Thanks. So yeah, I'll
work on getting the the the raw dollar
value and the percentage values, you
know, throughout that chart instead of
just subtotaled. I'll ask them if we can
get ahead and do that. And Liz, if you
have a your own chart where you've done
it already, you want to email that to
me, I'll take it. And uh
>> Y
>> and say, you know, we actually already
did it if you want ours.
>> Yep. I will get that to you.
>> Uh Joanne is in the audience, too.
>> Joanne, I'm sorry. When did you join? I
didn't see you. Uh, hi public speak.
>> Hello.
>> I joined like five minutes in. I think I
was logging into the wrong meeting and
just sitting in there. Just a couple
quick things, guys, because this year's
highly unusual with there's never
usually a budget workshop meeting so
close to the town meeting. We, you know,
we've usually, it definitely was needed,
but I think that's kind of to give
courtesy to the town office staff and
like you're going to be requesting that
the board of ed make copies and
everything just to be cognizant of
asking everybody to make the copies. Um,
another thing, we didn't get a town
mailer this year and I'm thinking that
goes along. So, that's highly
disappointing. I didn't want to bring it
up because I'm thinking about it because
I know but we have Yeah,
>> it just goes along with everything I've
been saying with all the new people in
maybe different positions. Um, I don't
know who took care of that, like if
that's a town clerk thing that we make
sure, cuz I remember them saying, "Ooh,
we have to finalize this cuz we need 5
days for the mailer and all those kind
of things were running through my head,
but I don't want to bring up everything
in public speak, you know, and I I
figured that was happening." So, I don't
think anybody got a mailer this time,
but I heard that it was advertised in
the paper, so the town meeting can be
legitim legitimate.
>> Yeah. Um, and then just a quick thing
that I was going to bring up. Um,
uh, sorry, let me just look at my note
real quick. Oh, I hope it sounds like
some of the copies are already made, but
you guys did do a few since you were
talking about salary items in general
and some of the lines you kept extra
things in that probably weren't
contractual. I had sent one email. So I
hope when you have time you get to put
notes in those things just so that you
all remember like when you're giving
someone a salary but you kept I had
thought in the admin assistant
>> some of those changes were contractual
some of those were not contractual and
some of them were just consolidation of
positions and you know in lines we we
consolidated the stipen
>> right you you kept it in so it might
just be helpful to know you're not
married to that one line but you did
keep the stipen in it could be the same
person that's hired as the admin
assistant and just gets additional
money. So, you could have done something
with that stipen, but you kept it in.
So, since there's more money in that
line, maybe just put a little note
there.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, one last thing, you did put the I
remember when I did an assessment appeal
thing, it was on the homeowner wasn't in
this town. You had to kind of get all
the info. You had to go down to the town
hall. You had to find the stuff. So
great that they get what they need for
their job, but I'm just saying they
could probably do the same thing that I
did and look through the town records if
they had to verify things.
>> Real estate, the real estate, well, the
assessment is pretty opaque, I think,
for a car. The real estate assessment,
you know, you can log individual
appraisal. That's one of the the slides
that Liz and I talked about making. And
I think the other thing with a
challenging I've never done it, but if
you challenge your house assessment, I
think you have to have your independent
appraisal done.
>> You have to pay for that out of your
pocket. So it's a whole
>> I think you have to come in with a few
um you have to bring in examples you
have to print other examples where you
compare your house to theirs.
>> I think from talking
>> try to fight your own like little battle
of trying to again wasn't in this town
>> trying to lower your taxes which raises
everybody else's honestly. So uh look
yeah if if that's
>> yeah um
>> yeah and I'm I'm good you know I just
wanted to mention those couple things.
Um
>> you know good luck with everything.
Thank you. Very good.
>> Okay. Um, very good. So, uh, if there's
nothing further, I mean, I'm going to
try, just FYI, guys, I'm going to try to
get in there into school gym, you know,
early. I don't know how early, but well
beforehand. Make sure that
between my laptop and Liz, when you get
you get there, your laptop, which is
definitely in better condition, you
know, to do the presentation, have it
all set up to our to our uh,
satisfaction.
So, I'll I'll probably try to be there,
you know, well well ahead of time. Um,
and I'll probably be running around the
afternoon
town hall, etc. Um, so if anybody wants
to, you know, thinks that something
wants to text me, whatever. The issue
with the flyer with not getting a
mailer, you know, it's fun something
funny. It's one of the things that
Caitlyn was texting me about earlier
tonight, like we didn't get a mailer.
What's going on this year? So, yeah,
we're a little discombobulated. It's the
reality.
I think that's the lack of an Eric.
>> Exactly.
>> It wasn't you, Rob. Don't take it on the
board of finance.
>> I'm not I'm not I'm not saying
>> the town hall, you know, people that
have been there have to think about it.
>> It's what we were just talking about.
There's just
>> Yeah. I just didn't want you guys to
take on more. You've done a great job.
You know, you can't remember everything.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just clarifying. So, okay. If we're
good and everybody's kind of I've got
some to-dos. Liz has some to-dos. Um,
but I think we're good. I mean, do we
have a do we have a motion to adjurnn?
>> Motion to.
>> I'll make a motion.
>> We both do.
>> Bill moves. Louise, you seconding?
>> I'll second.
>> All right. Very good. I'm going to go
reverse order. Louise.
>> Uh, yes. But first, uh, Liz, if you need
help at the town hall tomorrow, if
you're going to do anything, let me
know.
>> Okay. Thanks.
>> I'll be right.
>> I will. I'm I'm taking a half day in the
afternoon. I have to go to work in the
morning. So, I'll be there probably
early afternoon, midafter afternoon.
>> Okay.
>> Motion to adjurnn.
>> Yes. Sorry, mute was stuck. Uh, yes.
>> Okay.
>> Hi there.
>> Yes.
>> Liz.
>> Yes. That's what I thought. Bill.
>> Yes.
>> And I'm a yes. Very good. We adjourn at
8:34.
That's like a record for us this year.
Uh,
and I'm stopping the recording.